The Perseids are raging outside again, but I am still inside, sitting on our kitchen floor with your watchmaker’s tweezers. A drop of my blood hits the cold white tile, and I suck in air through gritted teeth. And I remember.

          One year ago, we were packing a bag to watch last August’s Perseids. The full bottle slipped from your hands, shooting glass shards and wine everywhere, dyeing my jeans forever with flecks of red.

          Don’t move, you said. You’re barefoot.

          I stood in place, fidgeting, heart pounding, while you scoured every square inch of the floor. On your knees, wiry beard tucked into your shirt, running a paper towel over each individual tile. Just like you’d search for tiny wayward springs.

          You never break things, I thought. We’re going to miss the peak, I said.

          We didn’t. I was just impatient.

          The wine was gone, so we ate mushrooms instead. We lay flat on the ground until dawn, falling upward through a dizzying starfield together. The earth is cool even in August in the Cascades, but your hand was hot and trembling in mine.

          We went to the ER the next morning, when you started slurring. The lump in your skull that made your steady hands shake also made that year’s Perseids your last.

          Now, hunched alone on the kitchen floor, digging artlessly into my foot with your fine tools, I regret rushing you. The one sliver of glass you missed, I found. It wormed in between my big toe and the ball of my foot sometime amid the hazy weeks of doctors and paperwork, your family and morphine drips and snuggling in your hospital bed. I ignored it in favor of time with you, and that, I don’t regret.

          My body handled it. It formed a hard ball of callus, a granuloma, to bury what it couldn’t yet release. But today, I kicked the corner cabinet, and the splinter moved within me, and the pain sent me to my knees.

          You owned a dozen specialized tweezers, now scattered on the kitchen floor. I try again with the pointy-tipped brass ones, choosing them for their pale-green patina in the shape of your fingers. Under the kitchen’s daylight-bright overheads—I need to see my workspace, you said—I match my thumb to the shadow of yours, and I hesitate.

          Once it’s gone, I will never feel you inside me again in any other way.

          You would’ve pulled it out of me. Gently, with a minimum of pain. Your tools were like part of your body, but I’m so clumsy, so rushed. Tears blur my vision while I probe inside myself for a millimeter of glass.

          “It hurts,” I whisper. It hurts because I am doing this without you.

          But I do get it out. With only the tools you left behind.

          And I watch the Perseids again this year. Alone, lying on cool and steady earth.

          And the hard ball of callus is shrinking, though I hope it never fully fades away.
